
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Data::Object::Type::Hash

=cut

=head1 ABSTRACT

Data-Object Hash Type Constraint

=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  package App::Type::Library;

  use Type::Library -base;

  use Data::Object::Type::Hash;

  register Data::Object::Type::Hash;

  1;

=cut

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Type constraint for validating L<Data::Object::Hash> objects. This type
constraint is registered in the L<Data::Object::Library> type library.

=cut

=head1 METHODS

This package implements the following methods.

=cut

=head2 aliases

  aliases() : ArrayRef

The aliases method returns aliases to register in the type library.

=over 4

=item aliases example

  my $aliases = $self->aliases();

=back

=cut

=head2 coercions

  coercions() : ArrayRef

The coercions method returns coercions to configure on the type constraint.

=over 4

=item coercions example

  my $coercions = $self->coercions();

=back

=cut

=head2 explaination

  explaination(Object $arg1, Object $arg2, Str $arg3) : Any

The explaination method returns the explaination for the type check failure.

=over 4

=item explaination example

  my $explaination = $self->explaination();

=back

=cut

=head2 name

  name() : StrObject

The name method returns the name of the data type.

=over 4

=item name example

  my $name = $self->name();

=back

=cut

=head2 parameterize

  parameterize(Object $arg1, Object $arg2) : Num

The parameterize method returns truthy if parameterized type check is valid.

=over 4

=item parameterize example

  my $parameterize = $self->parameterize();

=back

=cut

=head2 parameterize_coercions

  parameterize(Object $arg1, Object $arg2) : Num

The parameterize_coercions method returns truthy if parameterized type check is valid.

=over 4

=item parameterize_coercions example

  my $parameterize_coercions = $self->parameterize_coercions();

=back

=cut

=head2 validation

  validation(Object $arg1) : NumObject

The validation method returns truthy if type check is valid.

=over 4

=item validation example

  my $validation = $self->validation();

=back

=cut
