
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Data::Object::Config

=cut

=head1 ABSTRACT

Data-Object Package Configuration

=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Data::Object::Config 'Core';

=cut

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This package is used to configure the consuming package based on arguments
passed to the import statement.

=head1 CONFIGURATIONS

This package is used by both L<Do> and L<Data::Object> to configure the calling
namespace.

=head2 core

  package main;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Core';

  fun main() {
    # ...
  }

  1;

The core configuration enables strict, warnings, Perl's 5.14 features, and
configures the core type library, method signatures, and autoboxing.

=head2 library

  package App::Library;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Library';

  our $User = declare 'User',
    as InstanceOf["App::User"];

  1;

The library configuration established a L<Type::Library> compliant type
library, as well as configuring L<Type::Utils> in the calling package.  Read
more at L<Data::Object::Library>.

=head2 class

  package App::User;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Class';

  has 'fname';
  has 'lname';

  1;

The class configuration configures the calling package as a Moo class, having
the "has", "with", and "extends" keywords available. Read more at
L<Data::Object::Class>.

=head2 role

  package App::Queuer;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Role';

  has 'queue';

  method dequeue() {
    # ...
  }

  method enqueue($job) {
    # ...
  }

  1;

The role configuration configures the calling package as a Moo role, having the
"has", "with", and "extends" keywords available. Read more at
L<Data::Object::Role>.

=head2 rule

  package App::Queueable;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Rule';

  requires 'dequeue';
  requires 'enqueue';

  1;

The rule configuration configures the calling package as a Moo role, intended
to be used to classify interfaces. Read more at L<Data::Object::Rule>.

=head2 state

  package App::Env;

  use Data::Object::Config 'State';

  has 'vars';
  has 'args';
  has 'opts';

  1;

The state configuration configures the calling package as a singleton class
with global state. Read more at L<Data::Object::State>.

=head2 struct

  package App::Data;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Struct';

  has 'auth';
  has 'user';
  has 'args';

  1;

The struct configuration configures the calling package as a class whose state
becomes immutable after instantiation. Read more at L<Data::Object::Struct>.

=head2 array

  package App::Args;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Array';

  method command() {
    return $self->get(0);
  }

  1;

The array configuration configures the calling package as a class which extends
the Array class. Read more at L<Data::Object::Array>.

=head2 code

  package App::Func;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Code';

  around BUILD($args) {
    $self->$orig($args);

    # ...
  }

  1;

The code configuration configures the calling package as a class which extends
the Code class. Read more at L<Data::Object::Code>.

=head2 float

  package App::Amount;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Float';

  method currency(Str $code) {
    # ...
  }

  1;

The float configuration configures the calling package as a class which extends
the Float class. Read more at L<Data::Object::Float>.

=head2 hash

  package App::Data;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Hash';

  method logline() {
    # ...
  }

  1;

The hash configuration configures the calling package as a class which extends
the Hash class. Read more at L<Data::Object::Hash>.

=head2 integer

  package App::Phone;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Integer';

  method format(Str $code) {
    # ...
  }

  1;

The integer configuration configures the calling package as a class which
extends the Integer class. Read more at L<Data::Object::Integer>.

=head2 number

  package App::ID;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Number';

  method find() {
    # ...
  }

  1;

The number configuration configures the calling package as a class which
extends the Number class. Read more at L<Data::Object::Number>.

=head2 regexp

  package App::Path;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Regexp';

  method match() {
    # ...
  }

  1;

The regexp configuration configures the calling package as a class which
extends the Regexp class. Read more at L<Data::Object::Regexp>.

=head2 scalar

  package App::OID;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Scalar';

  method find() {
    # ...
  }

  1;

The scalar configuration configures the calling package as a class which
extends the Scalar class. Read more at L<Data::Object::Scalar>.

=head2 string

  package App::Title;

  use Data::Object::Config 'String';

  method generate() {
    # ...
  }

  1;

The string configuration configures the calling package as a class which
extends the String class. Read more at L<Data::Object::String>.

=head2 undef

  package App::Fail;

  use Data::Object::Config 'Undef';

  method explain() {
    # ...
  }

  1;

The undef configuration configures the calling package as a class which extends
the Undef class. Read more at L<Data::Object::Undef>.

=cut

=head1 FUNCTIONS

This package implements the following functions.

=cut

=head2 choose

  choose(Str $arg1) : ArrayRef

The choose function returns the configuration (plans) based on the argument passed.

=over 4

=item choose example

  choose('class');

=back

=cut

=head2 config

  config(ArrayRef $arg1) : ArrayRef

The config function returns plans for configuring a package with the standard
L<Data::Object> setup.

=over 4

=item config example

  my $plans = config;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_array

  config_array() : ArrayRef

The config_array function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Array>.

=over 4

=item config_array example

  my $plans = config_array;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_base

  config_base() : ArrayRef

The config_base function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Base>.

=over 4

=item config_base example

  my $plans = config_base;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_class

  config_class() : ArrayRef

The config_class function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class>.

=over 4

=item config_class example

  my $plans = config_class;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_cli

  config_cli() : ArrayRef

The config_cli function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Cli>.

=over 4

=item config_cli example

  my $plans = config_cli;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_code

  config_code() : ArrayRef

The config_code function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Code>.

=over 4

=item config_code example

  my $plans = config_code;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_dispatch

  config_dispatch() : ArrayRef

The config_dispatch function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Dispatch>.

=over 4

=item config_dispatch example

  my $plans = config_dispatch;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_exception

  config_exception() : ArrayRef

The config_exception function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Exception>.

=over 4

=item config_exception example

  my $plans = config_exception;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_float

  config_float() : ArrayRef

The config_float function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Float>.

=over 4

=item config_float example

  my $plans = config_float;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_hash

  config_hash() : ArrayRef

The config_hash function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Hash>.

=over 4

=item config_hash example

  my $plans = config_hash;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_integer

  config_integer() : ArrayRef

The config_integer function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Integer>.

=over 4

=item config_integer example

  my $plans = config_integer;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_library

  config_library() : ArrayRef

The config_library function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Type::Library> which extends L<Data::Object::Library> with L<Type::Utils>
configured.

=over 4

=item config_library example

  my $plans = config_library;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_number

  config_number() : ArrayRef

The config_number function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Number>.

=over 4

=item config_number example

  my $plans = config_number;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_regexp

  config_regexp() : ArrayRef

The config_regexp function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Regexp>.

=over 4

=item config_regexp example

  my $plans = config_regexp;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_replace

  config_replace() : ArrayRef

The config_replace function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Replace>.

=over 4

=item config_replace example

  my $plans = config_replace;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_role

  config_role() : ArrayRef

The config_role function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Role>.

=over 4

=item config_role example

  my $plans = config_role;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_rule

  config_rule() : ArrayRef

The config_rule function returns plans for configuring a package to be a
L<Data::Object::Rule>.

=over 4

=item config_rule example

  my $plans = config_rule;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_scalar

  config_scalar() : ArrayRef

The config_scalar function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Scalar>.

=over 4

=item config_scalar example

  my $plans = config_scalar;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_search

  config_search() : ArrayRef

The config_search function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Search>.

=over 4

=item config_search example

  my $plans = config_search;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_state

  config_state() : ArrayRef

The config_state function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::State>.

=over 4

=item config_state example

  my $plans = config_state;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_string

  config_string() : ArrayRef

The config_string function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::String>.

=over 4

=item config_string example

  my $plans = config_string;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_type

  config_type() : ArrayRef

The config_type function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Type>.

=over 4

=item config_type example

  my $plans = config_type;

=back

=cut

=head2 config_undef

  config_undef() : ArrayRef

The config_undef function returns plans for configuring the package to be a
L<Data::Object::Class> which extends L<Data::Object::Undef>.

=over 4

=item config_undef example

  my $plans = config_undef;

=back

=cut

=head2 prepare

  prepare(Str $arg1, Str $arg2) : ArrayRef

The prepare function returns configuration plans based on the arguments passed.

=over 4

=item prepare example

  prepare($package, $type);

=back

=cut

=head2 prepare_add

  prepare_add(Str $arg1, Str $arg2) : ArrayRef

The prepare_add function returns an add-plan for the arguments passed.

=over 4

=item prepare_add example

  prepare_add($package, $function);

=back

=cut

=head2 prepare_call

  prepare_call(Str $arg1, Any @args) : ArrayRef

The prepare_call function returns a call-plan for the arguments passed.

=over 4

=item prepare_call example

  prepare_call($function, @args);

=back

=cut

=head2 prepare_let

  prepare_let(Str $arg1, Any @args) : ArrayRef

The prepare_let function returns a let-plan for the arguments passed.

=over 4

=item prepare_let example

  prepare_let($package, @args);

=back

=cut

=head2 prepare_use

  prepare_use(Str $arg1, Any @args) : ArrayRef

The prepare_use function returns a use-plan for the arguments passed.

=over 4

=item prepare_use example

  prepare_use($package, @args);

=back

=cut

=head2 process

  process(Str $arg1, ArrayRef $arg2) : Any

The process function executes a series of plans on behalf of the caller.

=over 4

=item process example

  process($caller, $plans);

=back

=cut

=head2 process_add

  process_add(Str $arg1, ArrayRef $arg2) : Any

The process_add function executes the add-plan on behalf of the caller.

=over 4

=item process_add example

  process_add($caller, $plan);

=back

=cut

=head2 process_call

  process_call(Str $arg1, ArrayRef $arg2) : Any

The process_call function executes the call-plan on behalf of the caller.

=over 4

=item process_call example

  process_call($caller, $plan);

=back

=cut

=head2 process_let

  process_let(Str $arg1, ArrayRef $arg2) : Any

The process_let function executes the let-plan on behalf of the caller.

=over 4

=item process_let example

  process_let($caller, $plan);

=back

=cut

=head2 process_use

  process_use(Str $arg1, ArrayRef $arg2) : Any

The process_use function executes the use-plan on behalf of the caller.

=over 4

=item process_use example

  process_use($caller, $plan);

=back

=cut

=head2 subject

  subject(Str $arg1, Str $arg2) : Int

The subject function returns truthy if both arguments match alphanumerically
(not case-sensitive).

=over 4

=item subject example

  subject('Role', 'Role');

=back

=cut

=head1 AUTHOR

Al Newkirk, C<awncorp@cpan.org>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011-2019, Al Newkirk, et al.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same
terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 PROJECT

L<On GitHub|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/do>

L<Initiatives|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/do/projects>

L<Contributing|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/do/blob/master/CONTRIBUTE.mkdn>

L<Reporting|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/do/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

To get the most out of this distribution, consider reading the following:

L<Data::Object::Class>

L<Data::Object::Role>

L<Data::Object::Rule>

L<Data::Object::Library>

L<Data::Object::Signatures>

=cut