
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Data::Object::Integer

=cut

=head1 ABSTRACT

Data-Object Integer Class

=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Data::Object::Integer;

  my $integer = Data::Object::Integer->new(9);

=cut

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Data::Object::Integer provides routines for operating on Perl 5 integer
data. Integer methods work on data that meets the criteria for being an integer.
An integer holds and manipulates an arbitrary sequence of bytes, typically
representing numeric characters. Users of integers should be aware of the
methods that modify the integer itself as opposed to returning a new integer.
Unless stated, it may be safe to assume that the following methods copy, modify
and return new integers based on their function.

=cut

=head1 METHODS

This package implements the following methods.

=cut

=head2 new

  # given 9

  my $integer = Data::Object::Integer->new(9);

The new method expects a number and returns a new class instance.

=cut

=head2 roles

  # given $integer

  $integer->roles;

The roles method returns the list of roles attached to object. This method
returns a L<Data::Object::Array> object.

=cut

=head2 rules

  my $rules = $integer->rules();

The rules method returns consumed rules.

=cut

=head2 defined

  # given $integer

  $integer->defined; # 1

The defined method returns true if the object represents a value that meets the
criteria for being defined, otherwise it returns false. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Number> object.

=cut

=head2 downto

  # given 1

  $integer->downto(0); # [1,0]

The downto method returns an array reference containing integer decreasing
values down to and including the limit. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Array> object.

=cut

=head2 eq

  # given 1

  $integer->eq(1); # 1

The eq method performs a numeric equality operation. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Number> object representing a boolean.

=cut

=head2 ge

  # given 1

  $integer->ge(0); # 1

The ge method returns true if the argument provided is greater-than or equal-to
the value represented by the object. This method returns a Data::Object::Number
object.

=cut

=head2 gt

  # given 1

  $integer->gt(1); # 0

The gt method performs a numeric greater-than comparison. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Number> object representing a boolean.

=cut

=head2 le

  # given 0

  $integer->le(1); # 1

The le method returns true if the argument provided is less-than or equal-to
the value represented by the object. This method returns a Data::Object::Number
object.

=cut

=head2 lt

  # given 1

  $integer->lt(1); # 0

The lt method performs a numeric less-than comparison. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Number> object representing a boolean.

=cut

=head2 ne

  # given 1

  $integer->ne(0); # 1

The ne method performs a numeric equality operation. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Number> object representing a boolean.

=cut

=head2 to

  # given 1

  $integer->to(2); # [1,2]
  $integer->to(0); # [1,0]

The to method returns an array reference containing integer increasing or
decreasing values to and including the limit in ascending or descending order
based on the value of the floating-point object. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Array> object.

=cut

=head2 upto

  # given 1

  $integer->upto(2); # [1,2]

The upto method returns an array reference containing integer increasing
values up to and including the limit. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Array> object.

=cut

=head1 ROLES

This package inherits all behavior from the folowing role(s):

=cut

=over 4

=item *

L<Data::Object::Role::Detract>

=item *

L<Data::Object::Role::Dumper>

=item *

L<Data::Object::Role::Output>

=item *

L<Data::Object::Role::Throwable>

=item *

L<Data::Object::Role::Type>

=back

=head1 RULES

This package adheres to the requirements in the folowing rule(s):

=cut

=over 4

=item *

L<Data::Object::Rule::Comparison>

=item *

L<Data::Object::Rule::Defined>

=back
