
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Data::Object::Number

=cut

=head1 ABSTRACT

Data-Object Number Class

=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Data::Object::Number;

  my $number = Data::Object::Number->new(1_000_000);

=cut

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Data::Object::Number provides routines for operating on Perl 5 numeric
data. Number methods work on data that meets the criteria for being a number. A
number holds and manipulates an arbitrary sequence of bytes, typically
representing numberic characters (0-9). Users of numbers should be aware of the
methods that modify the number itself as opposed to returning a new number.
Unless stated, it may be safe to assume that the following methods copy, modify
and return new numbers based on their function.

=cut

=head1 METHODS

This package implements the following methods.

=cut

=head2 new

  # given 1_000_000

  my $number = Data::Object::Number->new(1_000_000);

The new method expects a number and returns a new class instance.

=cut

=head2 roles

  # given $number

  $number->roles;

The roles method returns the list of roles attached to object. This method
returns a L<Data::Object::Array> object.

=cut

=head2 rules

  my $rules = $number->rules();

The rules method returns consumed rules.

=cut

=head2 abs

  # given 12

  $number->abs; # 12

  # given -12

  $number->abs; # 12

The abs method returns the absolute value of the number. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Number> object.

=cut

=head2 atan2

  # given 1

  $number->atan2(1); # 0.785398163397448

The atan2 method returns the arctangent of Y/X in the range -PI to PI This
method returns a L<Data::Object::Float> object.

=cut

=head2 cos

  # given 12

  $number->cos; # 0.843853958732492

The cos method computes the cosine of the number (expressed in radians). This
method returns a L<Data::Object::Float> object.

=cut

=head2 decr

  # given 123456789

  $number->decr; # 123456788

The decr method returns the numeric number decremented by 1. This method returns
a data type object to be determined after execution.

=cut

=head2 defined

  # given $number

  $number->defined; # 1

The defined method returns true if the object represents a value that meets the
criteria for being defined, otherwise it returns false. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Number> object.

=cut

=head2 downto

  # given 10

  $number->downto(5); # [10,9,8,7,6,5]

The downto method returns an array reference containing integer decreasing
values down to and including the limit. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Array> object.

=cut

=head2 eq

  # given 12345

  $number->eq(12346); # 0

The eq method performs a numeric equality operation. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Number> object representing a boolean.

=cut

=head2 exp

  # given 0

  $number->exp; # 1

  # given 1

  $number->exp; # 2.71828182845905

  # given 1.5

  $number->exp; # 4.48168907033806

The exp method returns e (the natural logarithm base) to the power of the
number. This method returns a L<Data::Object::Float> object.

=cut

=head2 ge

  # given 0

  $number->ge(0); # 1

The ge method returns true if the argument provided is greater-than or equal-to
the value represented by the object. This method returns a Data::Object::Number
object.

=cut

=head2 gt

  # given 99

  $number->gt(50); # 1

The gt method performs a numeric greater-than comparison. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Number> object representing a boolean.

=cut

=head2 hex

  # given 175

  $number->hex; # 0xaf

The hex method returns a hex string representing the value of the number. This
method returns a L<Data::Object::String> object.

=cut

=head2 incr

  # given 123456789

  $number->incr; # 123456790

The incr method returns the numeric number incremented by 1. This method returns
a data type object to be determined after execution.

=cut

=head2 int

  # given 12.5

  $number->int; # 12

The int method returns the integer portion of the number. Do not use this
method for rounding. This method returns a L<Data::Object::Number> object.

=cut

=head2 log

  # given 12345

  $number->log; # 9.42100640177928

The log method returns the natural logarithm (base e) of the number. This method
returns a L<Data::Object::Float> object.

=cut

=head2 le

  # given 0

  $number->le; # 0

The le method returns true if the argument provided is less-than or equal-to
the value represented by the object. This method returns a Data::Object::Number
object.

=cut

=head2 lt

  # given 86

  $number->lt(88); # 1

The lt method performs a numeric less-than comparison. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Number> object representing a boolean.

=cut

=head2 mod

  # given 12

  $number->mod(1); # 0
  $number->mod(2); # 0
  $number->mod(3); # 0
  $number->mod(4); # 0
  $number->mod(5); # 2

The mod method returns the division remainder of the number divided by the
argment. This method returns a L<Data::Object::Number> object.

=cut

=head2 ne

  # given -100

  $number->ne(100); # 1

The ne method performs a numeric equality operation. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Number> object representing a boolean.

=cut

=head2 neg

  # given 12345

  $number->neg; # -12345

The neg method returns a negative version of the number. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Integer> object.

=cut

=head2 pow

  # given 12345

  $number->pow(3); # 1881365963625

The pow method returns a number, the result of a math operation, which is the
number to the power of the argument. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Number> object.

=cut

=head2 sin

  # given 12345

  $number->sin; # -0.993771636455681

The sin method returns the sine of the number (expressed in radians). This
method returns a data type object to be determined after execution.

=cut

=head2 sqrt

  # given 12345

  $number->sqrt; # 111.108055513541

The sqrt method returns the positive square root of the number. This method
returns a data type object to be determined after execution.

=cut

=head2 to

  # given 5

  $number->to(9); # [5,6,7,8,9]
  $number->to(1); # [5,4,3,2,1]

The to method returns an array reference containing integer increasing or
decreasing values to and including the limit in ascending or descending order
based on the value of the floating-point object. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Array> object.

=cut

=head2 upto

  # given 23

  $number->upto(25); # [23,24,25]

The upto method returns an array reference containing integer increasing
values up to and including the limit. This method returns a
L<Data::Object::Array> object.

=cut

=head1 ROLES

This package inherits all behavior from the folowing role(s):

=cut

=over 4

=item *

L<Data::Object::Role::Detract>

=item *

L<Data::Object::Role::Dumper>

=item *

L<Data::Object::Role::Output>

=item *

L<Data::Object::Role::Throwable>

=item *

L<Data::Object::Role::Type>

=back

=head1 RULES

This package adheres to the requirements in the folowing rule(s):

=cut

=over 4

=item *

L<Data::Object::Rule::Comparison>

=item *

L<Data::Object::Rule::Defined>

=back
